Add "Latest updates" page (#1411)
Qiskit/documentation: docs/start/latest-updates.mdx

---
title: Latest updates
description: The latest updates from Qiskit and IBM Quantum, including the latest package release summaries, news, and events.
---

# Latest updates

Keep up with the latest and greatest from Qiskit and IBM Quantum! Gathered here are the the most recent Qiskit package release summaries, documentation updates, blogs, community events, and more.

## Latest release summaries

{/* release summaries written by product owners */}

### Qiskit SDK v1.1.0

> *To see the release notes for all versions, visit the [Qiskit SDK release notes].

Reviewer: Is this supposed to be a link?

Reviewer 2: Fixed!

On the IBM Quantum blog, we take a deep dive into the new beta release with a special focus on the new AI-powered passes. The blog includes detailed explanations showing how to use the Qiskit Transpiler Service for both full circuit transpilation and standalone AI-powered passes, with code examples for each. [Take a look.](https://www.ibm.com/quantum/blog/ai-transpiler-passes)

{/* no other release notes available yet */}

## Qiskit IBM Runtime service updates

This summary of the latest changes to the Qiskit Runtime service applies to anyone using Qiskit Runtime, regardless of how you communicate with the service (using qiskit-ibm-runtime or otherwise), or which version of the client SDK you use. 

### 28 March 2024

> Qiskit Runtime primitives now support QASM 3 as the input format for circuits and standard JSON output format. See [Qiskit IBM Runtime REST API](/api/runtime) for examples.

Reviewer: I think the official name is `OpenQasm 3`.

Reviewer 2: Actually OpenQASM 3 - good catch

### 3 June 2024

Probabilistic error amplification (PEA) error mitigation method is now available as an experimental option for Estimator V2. See the [`EstimatorOptions` API reference](/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/qiskit_ibm_runtime.options.EstimatorOptions) for more details.

### 18 June 2024

> The `optimization_level` option is deprecated for Estimator V2 and will be removed no sooner than three months from now.

Reviewer: Our deployment is delayed, so we push the removal date back a bit. 

```suggestion
The `optimization_level` option is deprecated for Estimator V2 and will be removed no sooner than 30 September 2024.
```

## Sunset of backend.run interface

The [`backend.run`](/api/qiskit-ibm-runtime/qiskit_ibm_runtime.IBMBackend#run)
interface in Qiskit Runtime is now deprecated and will be removed from the
`qiskit-ibm-runtime` package on the 15th of October. IBM's API will stop
accepting jobs submitted through this interface at the same time.

<Admonition type="caution" title="Action needed">

To avoid disruption, [migrate your
projects](/api/migration-guides/qiskit-runtime) to
V2 primitives before the 15th of October 2024. Jobs submitted through the
`backend.run` interface after this time will be rejected.

</ Admonition>

See the [official announcement](/announcements/product-updates/2024-04-15-backend-run-deprecation).

## Qiskit 1.3 will drop Python 3.8 support

Qiskit 1.3.0 will be the first release after Python 3.8 reaches its end-of-life
stage and stops being supported. Qiskit version 1.3.0 and later may use
features only available in Python 3.9. To use these later versions of Qiskit,
you'll need to upgrade the version of Python you're using to 3.9 or greater.

See this announcement in the [release notes](/api/qiskit/release-notes/1.1#deprecation-notes)

> 

Author: One idea is to add an announcement about the transpiler service when it's out

```markdown
## IBM announces new Qiskit transpiler service

IBM announced its new AI transpiler service at Think this week. Use the
transpiler service to take advantage of IBM Cloud resources and AI-powered
transpiler passes.

Learn how to [use the transpiler service](/transpile/qiskit-transpiler-service).
```
